<!--- @file
  2.4 Typical Flash Part Layout

  Copyright (c) 2008-2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.<BR>

  Redistribution and use in source (original document form) and 'compiled'
  forms (converted to PDF, epub, HTML and other formats) with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  1) Redistributions of source code (original document form) must retain the
     above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
     disclaimer as the first lines of this file unmodified.

  2) Redistributions in compiled form (transformed to other DTDs, converted to
     PDF, epub, HTML and other formats) must reproduce the above copyright
     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  THIS DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED BY TIANOCORE PROJECT "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
  EVENT SHALL TIANOCORE PROJECT  BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
  OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF
  ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-->

## 2.4 Typical Flash Part Layout

While a flash part layout is specific to a given platform, there are some
generalizations that apply. The SEC and PEI code is typically put into a
"RECOVERY" location, while all remaining sections are put into the "MAIN"
location. The MAIN section may be compressed for size optimization, provided
the PEI or SEC code contains appropriate decompression drivers. The PI
specification defines only standard EFI compression; if other compression
mechanisms (or verification mechanisms, such as CRC32) are required, then both
the tools for creating a compressed image and a library for decompressing the
image must be provided. These non-standard compression, encryption, signing or
verification mechanisms are applied to a GUIDED encapsulation section. Each
method needs a unique GUID, however the methods may be applied to images more
than once per FD image. This is done in order to facilitate recovery and updates
(called capsules). Other areas in flash may be reserved for non-volatile (NV)
data storage, fault tolerant working (FTW) space or vital product data (VPD)
areas. These other regions are not defined in the PI specification, and
implementation is left to the platform integrator. The reference design Nt32
Platform emulation environment contains a virtual flash device. The content
within this virtual FD is laid out per Figure 4.

![](../media/image4.png)

###### Figure 4 NT32 Flash Device Layout

Figure 5 represents a typical IA32/X64 FD layout, where SEC and PEI code is
located in the FV Recovery section, and the remaining drivers are located in a
GUIDED encapsulation (compressed) section designated as `FVMAIN_Compact`.

![](../media/image5.png)

###### Figure 5 Typical IA32/X64 Flash Device Layout

Figure 6 represents a typical IPF FD layout.

![](../media/image6.png)

###### Figure 6 Typical IPF FD Layout

All of these layouts assume only one flash device, with the virtual memory
addresses listed for each section within the FD.

**********
**Note:** More than one flash device may be present within a platform, so the
images may be split over multiple devices.
**********
